The pragmatic analyst
*** a list of tips adapted from the Pragmatic Programmer ***

1. Care about your craft
Why spend your life doing computational engineering unless you care about doing it well?

2. Think! about your work
Turn off the autopilot and take control. Constantly critique and appraise your work.

3. Provide options. Don't make lame excuses
Instead of excuses, provide options. Don't say it can't be done; explain what can be done.

4. Don't live with broken windows
Fix bad designs, wrong decisions and poor setups when you see them.

5. Be a catalyst for change
You can't force change on people. Instead, show them how the future might be and help them
participate in creating it.

6. Remember the big picture
Don't get so engrossed in the details that you forget to check what's happening around you.

7. Make quality a requirements issue
Involve your users (manager/client) in determining the project's real quality requirements.

8. Invest regularly in your knowledge portfolio
Make learning a habit.

9. Critically analyse what you read and hear
Don't be swayed by vendors, media hype or dogma; analyse information in terms of you and your project.

10. It's both what you say and how you say it
There's no point in having great ideas if you don't communicate them effectively.

11. DRY: Do not repeat yourself
Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system

12. Make it easy to reuse
If it's easy to reuse, people will. Create an environment that supports reuse.
Create templates, guidelines and models that can be adapted to the particular case.

13. Eliminate effects between unrelated things
Design compnents that are self-contained, independent and have a single well-defined purpose.

14. There are no final decisions
No decision is cast in stone. Instead, consider each as being written on teh sand at the beach and always
plan for change.

15. Use tracer bullets to find the target





***
The cheapest supplier does not become the cheapest solution in the end



